Welcome, Elizabeth to the, uh,
environment Select Committee this afternoon.
A little bit of a later start,
but, uh, you've got 20 minutes with us, so, uh,
we'll hand it over to you for your opening remarks,
but of course, take your submission as well read,
and, uh, members will have questions.
So we'll hand it over to you.
Great. Um, Kiara, thank you very much for,
um, having me today.
Um, so, um, called Elizabeth Ha.
I am the CEO of New Zealand Forest Owners Association.
Um, so we are a membership body
for the commercial plantation forest growing industry.
Um, I know I've appeared before the committee before,
but, um, just making sure everyone's on the same page.
Um, so we, uh, have members who are responsible
for about 1 2, 1 0.2 million hectares
of New Zealand's Plantation Forest
and over 70% of the annual harvest.
We also look after the commodity levy for, um,
commercial forestry.
Um, our membership includes a wide range, um,
and is really representative of the wide range of foresters
that we have in New Zealand.
So we've got everything from farm foresters, um,
to iwi, hapu, and Maori forestry interests.
We've also got, um, a range of local
and central government, uh, foresters
and, uh, corporate, uh, and multinational forestry.
So it's, um, indicative of the, I guess,
broad church in water New Zealand
that looks after forest growing.
Um, overall, I I just wanna say we're very supportive of
the Alt F report.
Um, it's a big chunky report
and that's really good to see, um,
from the parliamentary commissioner for the environment
and from his team because, um, forestry
and rural land management broadly need a really deep dive,
um, and some very serious and considered thinking.
So, um, we supported the production of the report
with interviews and site visits.
I did wanna make an offer to the committee early on
as I'm talking through some of our feedback on the report,
that we are always happy
to host you on field visits if you would like
to go see anything in person.
Um, and I was in preparation for this session today speaking
to Tani's Tree Trust yesterday, which are a charity
with expertise in native, um, a forestation.
They're also happy, um,
to help us coordinate any of those visits.
So putting that offer on the table as we, as we work
through, if there's anything that a real life
example would be helpful for.
Um, so there's a lot that we agreed with in the report,
and I can come to that a little bit later.
But I, I thought useful in the presentation today
to focus on the areas where we may have had some
disagreement and that we'd like
to explore a little bit further, um, as to where,
where we think some
of the recommendations would be less helpful
or may need to be nuanced.
Um, and just, just acknowledging that although I look
after timber producers that, um, a lot
of those timber producers do have some interest in, uh,
carbon forestry and may have carbon and timber.
Um, but we did feel like overall the recommendations
probably focused a little too much on the emissions trading
scheme and that element
of forestry when there's really a much wider, um,
consideration that needs to happen within the forest system.
Um, so look, overall, um, I think we,
we would be very reluctant
and certainly when you,
when you look at what's happening right now with the price
of the emissions trading scheme today, we're very cognizant
of the implications
and the impacts that, um,
big moves can make on the emissions trading scheme
and on our ability to use that tool
to meet our climate targets.
And so we, we disagree
with the commissioner's recommendations around the phase out
of forestry offsets, um,
and moving that into its own, um,
own emissions trading scheme for biogenic, uh, carbon
with, um, farming.
Um, there's a range of reasons why
that would be problematic, not the least of which are
that Iwi Habu Maori
and small scale foresters make up a, a large proportion
of the emissions trading scheme participants.
Um, and they're likely to be the most impacted
by any changes or transitions that we may undertake.
Um, I guess just to highlight as well,
when we're talking about some of the risks
of permanent forestry that were raised in the report,
permanent forestry is still a minority activity in the
wider New Zealand context.
And we're very early on the journey of
what per permanent forests, um, may be able
to become in New Zealand.
So the emissions trading scheme was only introduced in, uh,
2008 and the permanent forest sink initiative,
which was the parallel activity, was introduced, um, around.